H RENTAL AGREEMENT AND/OR LEASE I



Landlord/Lessor/Agent:                                                                                                          Tenant(s)/Lessee:                                                                                                          Tenant(s)/Lessee:                                                                                                          Apartment Address:                                                                                                      
City:                                                                                                                               
This Rental Agreement and/or Lease shall evidence the complete terms and conditions under which the parties whose signatures appear below have agreed. Landlord/Lessor/Agent (to the left) shall be referred to as “OWNER” and Tenant(s)/Lessee(s) (to the left) shall be referred to as “RESIDENT.” As consideration for this agreement, OWNER agrees to rent/lease to RESIDENT and RESIDENT agrees to rent/lease from OWNER for use SOLELY AS A PRIVATE RESIDENCE, the premises listed to the left.

1. TERMS: RESIDENT agrees to pay in advance $ 	  per month on the   day of each month.
This agreement shall commence on    , 20    and continue: (check one)

A.   Until     , 20  as a leasehold. Thereafter it shall become a month-to-month tenancy. If RESIDENT should move from the premises prior to the expiration of this time period, he shall be liable for all rent due until such time that the apartment is occupied by an OWNER approved paying RESIDENT and/or expiration of said time period, whichever period is shorter.
B.   A month-to-month tenancy, that may be terminated by either party. The OWNER giving 60-day written notice to move (for more than 1 year tenancy), or a 30-day written notice to move (for less than 1 year tenancy) and the RESIDENT giving 30-day written notice of intent to terminate tenancy.

2. PAYMENTS: Rent and/or other charges are to be paid at the office or apartment of the manager of the building or at such other place designated in writing by OWNER. For the safety of the manager, all payments are to be made by check or money order and no cash shall be acceptable. OWNER acknowledges receipt of the First month’s rent of:  $                    , and a Security Deposit of $                      , for a total payment of $                        . All payments are to be made payable to:                                 
   and delivered to 	       California, Telephone Number  	       who is usually available on the following days:     during the following hours:
                                     .
3. LATE CHARGE: A late fee of $      , said amount not to exceed 6% of the monthly rent, shall be added to any payment of rent not made before   day(s) after the due date or for which a deficient (bounced) check shall have been given.
4. SECURITY DEPOSITS: The Security Deposit shall not exceed two times the monthly rent for unfurnished apartments or three times the monthly rent for furnished apartments. The total of the above deposits shall secure compliance with the terms and conditions of this agreement and shall be refunded to RESIDENT within 21 days after the premises have been
completely vacated less any amount necessary to pay OWNER: a) any unpaid rent, b) cleaning costs, c) key replacement costs, d) costs for repair of damages to apartment and/or common areas above ordinary wear and tear, and e) any other amount legally allowable under the terms of this agreement. A written accounting of said charges shall be presented to
RESIDENT within 21 days of move-out. If deposits do not cover such costs and damages, the RESIDENT shall immediately pay said additional costs for damages to OWNER. During
the term of tenancy, RESIDENT agrees to increase the deposit upon 30 days written notice by an amount equal to any future increases in rent and/or an amount necessary to cover the cost of rectifying any damage or expense for which RESIDENT is responsible. Security deposit is not to be used as last month’s rent.
5. UTILITIES: RESIDENT agrees to pay for all utilities and/or services based upon occupancy of the premises except                                                                                .
6. OCCUPANTS: Guest(s) staying over 14 days cumulative or longer during any 12-month period, without the OWNER’S written consent, shall be considered a breach of this
agreement. ONLY the following listed individuals and/or animals, AND NO OTHERS shall occupy the subject apartment for more than 14 days unless the expressed written consent of OWNER    is    obtained    in    advance:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   . RESIDENT shall pay additional rent at the rate of $100.00 per month or 25% (or the amount allowed under rent control) of the current monthly rent; whichever amount is greater, for the period of time that each additional guest in excess of the above named shall occupy the premises. RESIDENT shall pay the same additional monthly rent for each additional animal in excess of the above named animal(s), which shall occupy the premises. Acceptance of additional rent or approval of a guest shall not waive any requirement of this agreement or convert the status of any “guest” into a RESIDENT.
7. PETS AND FURNISHINGS: Furnishings - No liquid-filled furniture of any kind may be kept on the premises. If the structure was built in 1973 or later RESIDENT may posses a waterbed if he maintains waterbed insurance valued at $100,000.00 or more. RESIDENT must furnish OWNER with proof of said insurance. RESIDENT must also comply with Civil Code Section 1940.5. Resident shall not keep on premises a receptacle containing more than ten gallons of liquid, highly combustible materials or other items which may cause a hazard or affect insurance rates such as, musical instrument, item(s) of unusual weight or dimension, RESIDENT also agrees to carry insurance deemed appropriate by OWNER to cover possible losses caused by using said items. Pets – No animal, fowl, fish, reptile, and/or pet of any kind shall be kept on or about the premises, for any amount of time, without obtaining the prior written consent and meeting the requirements of the OWNER. Said consent, if granted, shall be revocable at OWNER’S option upon giving a 30-day written notice. In the event laws are passed or permission is granted to have any item prohibited by this agreement or if for any reason such item exists on the premises, there shall be minimum additional rent of $25.00 a month for each such item if another amount is not stated in this agreement. In the event laws are passed or permission is granted to have a pet and/or animal of any kind, an additional deposit in the amount of $  shall be required along with the signing of OWNER’S “PET AGREEMENT.”
8. PARKING/STORAGE: When and if RESIDENT is assigned a parking space on OWNER’S property, the parking space shall be used exclusively for parking of passenger
automobiles and/or those approved vehicles listed on RESIDENT’S “Application to Rent/Lease” or attached hereto. RESIDENT is hereby assigned parking space #   . RESIDENT may not wash, repair, or paint in this parking space or at any other common areas on the premises. (RESIDENT may not assign, sublet, or allow RESIDENT’S guest(s) to use this or any other parking space.) RESIDENT is responsible for oil leaks and other vehicle discharges for which RESIDENT shall be charged for cleaning if deemed necessary by OWNER. Only vehicles that are operational may park in their assigned space. Resident is assigned storage space #  located   _.
9. NOISE: RESIDENT agrees not to cause or allow any noise or activity on the premises that might disturb the peace and quiet of another RESIDENT. Said noise and/or activity shall be a breach of this Agreement.
10. LOITERING AND PLAY: Lounging, playing, or unnecessary loitering in the halls, on the front steps, or in the common areas in such a way as to interfere with the free use and enjoyment, passage or convenience of another RESIDENT is prohibited.
11. DESTRUCTION OF PREMISES: If the premises become totally or partially destroyed during the term of this Agreement so that RESIDENT’S use is seriously impaired, RESIDENT
or OWNER may terminate this Agreement immediately upon three-day written notice to the other.
12. CONDITION OF PREMISES: RESIDENT acknowledges that he has examined the premises and that said premises, all furnishings, fixtures, furniture, plumbing, heating, electrical facilities, all items listed on the attached inventory sheet, if any, and/or all other items provided by OWNER are all clean, and in good satisfactory condition except as may be indicated
elsewhere in this Agreement. RESIDENT agrees to keep the premises and all items in good order and condition and to immediately pay for costs to repair and/or replace any portion of
the above damaged by RESIDENT, his guests and/or invitees, except as provided by law. At the termination of this Agreement, all of the above-enumerated items in this provision shall be returned to OWNER in clean and good condition except for reasonable wear and tear; the premises shall be free of all personal property; trash not belonging to OWNER. It is agreed that all dirt, holes, tears, burns, or stains of any size or amount in the carpets, drapes, walls, fixtures, and/or any other part of the premises, do not constitute reasonable wear and tear.
13. MAINTENANCE AND ALTERATIONS: RESIDENT shall not paint, wallpaper, alter or redecorate, change or install locks, install antenna or other equipment, screws, fastening devices, excessively large nails, or adhesive materials, place signs, displays, or other exhibits, on or in any portion of the premises without the written consent of the OWNER except as may be provided by law. RESIDENT shall deposit all garbage and waste in a clean and sanitary manner into the proper receptacles as provided and shall cooperate in keeping the garbage area neat and clean. RESIDENT shall be responsible for disposing of items of such size or nature as is not normally acceptable by the garbage hauler for the building. RESIDENT shall be responsible for keeping the garbage disposal clean of chicken bones, toothpicks, match sticks, celery, pits, grease, metal vegetable ties, and all other items that may tend to cause stoppage of the mechanism. RESIDENT shall pay for the cleaning out of any plumbing fixture that may need to be cleared of stoppage and for the expense or damage caused by the stopping of waste pipes or overflow from bathtubs, washbasins, toilets, or sinks, if caused by negligence or misuse by RESIDENT or their guests. Tenant must notify landlord with a written notice stating what item(s) need service or repair and give landlord a reasonable opportunity to service or repair that item(s). Should any charges be incurred by the City as a result of not notifying the Landlord in writing of such needed service or repairs, tenant shall be responsible for a minimum of $201.50 for each occurrence.
14.  SMOKE DETECTOR: The rental unit is equipped with properly functioning smoke detectors. Resident agrees to test the smoke detectors in the rental unit monthly for proper function. Resident agrees not to interfere with their normal function or disable the smoke detectors in any manner.
15. HOUSE, POOL, AND LAUNDRY RULES: RESIDENT shall comply with all house, pool, pet, and laundry rules, which may be changed from time to time. These rules shall apply to, but are not limited to, noise, odors, disposal of trash, pets, parking, use of common areas, and storage of toys, bicycles, tools, and other personal items (including signs and laundry),
which must be kept inside and out of view. OWNER shall not be liable to RESIDENT for any violation of such rules by any other RESIDENTS or persons. Rights of usage and maintenance of the laundry room and/or pool and pool area are gratuitous and subject to revocation by OWNER at any time.
16. CHANGE OF TERMS: The terms and conditions of this agreement are subject to future change by OWNER after the expiration of the agreed lease period upon 30 days written notice setting forth such change and delivered to RESIDENT. Any changes are subject to laws in existence at the time of the Notice Of Change Of Terms.
17. TERMINATION: After expiration of the leasing period, this agreement is automatically renewed from month-to-month, but may be terminated by either party. The owner giving a 60-
day notice and the resident giving a 30-day written notice of intention to terminate. Where laws require “just cause,” such just cause shall be so stated on said notice. The premises shall be considered vacated only after all areas including storage areas are clear of all RESIDENT’S belongings, and keys and other property furnished for RESIDENT’S use are returned to OWNER. Should the RESIDENT hold over beyond the termination date or fail to vacate all possessions on or before the termination date, RESIDENT shall be liable for additional rent and damages, which may include damages due to OWNER’S loss of prospective new RENTERS.
18. POSSESSION: If OWNER is unable to deliver possession of the Apartment to RESIDENT on the agreed date, because of the loss or destruction of the Apartment or because of the failure of the prior RESIDENT to vacate or for any other reason, the RESIDENT and/or OWNER may immediately cancel and terminate this agreement upon written notice to the other party at their last known address, whereupon neither party shall have liability to the other, and any sums paid under this Agreement shall be refunded in full. If neither party cancels, this Agreement shall be pro-rated and begin on the date of actual possession.
19. INSURANCE: RESIDENT acknowledges that OWNER’S insurance does not cover personal property damage caused by fire, theft, rain, war, acts of God, acts of others, and/or any other causes, nor shall OWNER be held liable for such losses. RESIDENT IS HEREBY ADVISED TO OBTAIN HIS OWN INSURANCE POLICY TO COVER ANY PERSONAL
LOSSES. This does not waive OWNER’S duty to prevent personal injury or property damage where that duty is imposed by law.
20. RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION: OWNER or OWNER’S Agent by themselves or with others, may enter, inspect and/or repair the premises at any time in case of emergency or suspected abandonment. OWNER shall give 24 hours advance notice and may enter for the purpose of showing the premises during normal business hours to prospective renters, buyers, lenders, for smoke alarm inspections, and/or for normal inspection and repairs. OWNER is permitted to make all alterations, repairs and maintenance that in OWNER’S judgment is necessary to perform. In addition, OWNER has the right to enter pursuant to Civil Code Section 1954. If the work performed requires that RESIDENT temporarily vacate the unit, then RESIDENT shall vacate for this temporary period upon being served a 7-day notice by OWNER. RESIDENT agrees that in such event RESIDENT will be solely compensated by a corresponding reduction in the rent for those many days that RESIDENT was temporarily displaced. No other compensation shall be offered to the RESIDENT. If the work to be performed requires the cooperation of the RESIDENT to perform certain tasks, then RESIDENT shall perform those tasks upon receiving a 24-hour written notice. (EXAMPLE:
removing food items from cabinets so that the unit may be sprayed for pests.) Upon 24 hours notice, RESIDENT hereby agrees to lend OWNER the keys to the premises for the purpose of having a duplicate made for OWNER’S use.
21. ASSIGNMENT: RESIDENT agrees not to transfer, assign or sublet the premises or any part thereof and hereby appoints and authorizes the OWNER as his agent and/or by
OWNER’S own authority to evict any person claiming possession by way of any alleged assignment or subletting.
22. PARTIAL INVALIDITY: Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as waiving any of RESIDENT’S or OWNER’S rights under the law. If any part of this Agreement shall be in conflict with the law, that part shall be void to the extent that it is in conflict, but shall not invalidate this Agreement nor shall it affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
23. NO WAIVER: OWNER’S acceptance of rent with knowledge of any default by RESIDENT or waiver by OWNER of any breach of any term or condition of this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of subsequent breaches. Failure to require compliance or to exercise any right shall not be construed as a waiver by OWNER of said term, condition, and/or right, and shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
24. ATTORNEY’S FEES: If any legal action or proceeding be brought by either party to this agreement, the prevailing party shall be reimbursed for all reasonable attorney’s fees up to
$500 in addition to other damages awarded. Due to the fees that can be charged by attorneys, it is agreed by the parties that both sides will waive their right to a jury trial.
25. ABANDONMENT: California Civil Code Section 1951.2 shall govern Abandonment. If any rent has remained unpaid for 14 or more consecutive days and the OWNER has a reasonable belief of abandonment of the premises, OWNER shall give 18 days written notice to RESIDENT at any place (including the rented premises) that OWNER has reason to believe RESIDENT may receive said notice of OWNER’S intention to declare the premises abandoned. RESIDENT’S failure to respond to said notice as required by law shall allow
OWNER to reclaim the premises.
26. The undersigned RESIDENTS are jointly and severally responsible and liable for all obligations under this agreement and shall indemnify OWNER for liability caused by the actions
(omission or commission) of RESIDENTS, their guests and invitees.
27. Pursuant to Section 1785.26 of the California Civil Code, as required by law, you are hereby notified that a negative credit report reflecting on your credit history may be submitted to a credit reporting agency, if you fail to fulfill the terms of your credit obligation. RESIDENT expressly authorizes OWNER/AGENT (including a collection agency) to obtain Resident’s consumer credit report, which OWNER/AGENT may use if attempting to collect past due rent payments, late fees, or other charges from Resident, both during the term of the Agreement and thereafter.
28. Lead Warning Statement: Housing built before 1978 may contain lead-based paint. Lead from paint, paint chips and dust pose health hazards if not managed properly. Lead exposure is especially harmful to young children and pregnant women. Before renting pre-1978 housing, OWNERS must disclose the presence of known lead-based paint hazards in the dwelling. RESIDENTS must also receive a federally approved pamphlet on lead poisoning prevention.
OWNER/AGENT DISCLOSURE (Initial)
 	    OWNER’S initials (on left) mean OWNER has no knowledge of lead-based paint and/or lead-based hazards in or on the Premises and OWNER has no reports or records pertaining to lead-based paint and/or lead-based paint hazards in or on the Premises, or
 	     See Attached. (A separate form is attached disclosing OWNER’S information.)
 	      Agent has informed the lessor of the lessor’s obligations under 42 U.S.C. 4582(d) and is aware of his/her responsibility to ensure compliance.
RENTER’S ACKNOWLEDGEMENT (Initial)
 	 RENTER’S initial (on left) indicate that RENTER has received a copy of a “Protect Your Family from Lead in Your Home”, and that RENTER shall notify OWNER
promptly in writing of any deteriorating and/or peeling paint.
29.                   MOLD: The OWNER/AGENT has inspected the unit prior to lease and knows of no damp or wet building materials and knows of no mold contamination. Resident agrees to accept full responsibility and maintain the premises in a manner that prevents the occurrence of an infestation of mold in the premises. Resident also agrees to immediately report to the OWNER/AGENT any evidence of water leaks, excessive moisture or lack of proper ventilation and evidence of mold that cannot be removed by cleaning.
30.  ADDITIONS  AND EXCEPTIONS: 	    






31. NOTICES: All notices to RESIDENT shall be served at RESIDENT’S apartment / house and all notices to OWNER / AUTHORIZED PERSON shall be served to:
Person Authorized To Manage Property:
Name   Address 	   Phone Number			
Owner of property or a person who is authorized to act for and on behalf of the owner for the purpose of service of process and for the purpose of receiving and
receipting for all notices and demands.
Name 	   Address 	    Phone Number		
Person or Entity Authorized to Receive Payment of Rent:
Name   Address 	  Phone Number 	       	       
32. INVENTORY: The Apartment contains the following items for use by RESIDENT:	

RESIDENT further acknowledges that the subject premises are furnished with the additional furnishings listed on the attached inventory and that said attached inventory is hereby made part of this agreement.
33. RESIDENT acknowledges receipt of the following, which shall be deemed a part of this Agreement: (Please check)
     House Rules
      Laundry Rules
       Pet Agreement
        Pool Rules
 	 Garage Door Opener	
 	  Other:     
 	   Mailbox Keys
 Apartment Keys    
34. ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement between OWNER and RESIDENT. No oral agreements have been entered into, and all modifications or notices shall be in writing to be valid. The undersigned Residents are jointly and severally responsible for all obligations under this agreement and shall indemnify Owner for liability caused by the actions (omission or commission) of residents, their guests and invitees.
35. NOTICE: Pursuant to Section 290.46 of the Penal Code, information about specified registered sex offenders is made available to the public via an Internet Web site maintained by the Department of Justice at www.meganslaw.ca.gov. Depending on an offender's criminal history, this information will include either the address at which the offender resides or the community of residence and ZIP Code in which he or she resides.
36. RECEIPT OF AGREEMENT: The undersigned RESIDENT hereby certifies that he/she is fluent in the English language and has read and completely understands this Agreement
and hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of this “Rental Agreement and/or Lease.” (  	  RESIDENT’S initials), OR Pursuant to California Civil Code 1632, which requires translation of specified contracts or agreements that are negotiated in Spanish, Chinese, Vietnamese, Tagalog or Korean:
    RESIDENT’S initials (on left) hereby acknowledge that this Agreement was translated and interpreted in their foreign language of:  	  _.


Printed Name of Interpreter Signature of Interpreter Date



Owner/Agent  Date	    Resident  Date


Owner/Agent  Date	    Resident  Date


Owner/Agent  Date	    Resident  Date


NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE LEGAL VALIDITY OR THE ADEQUACY OF ANY PROVISION IN THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU DESIRE LEGAL ADVICE, CONSULT YOUR ATTORNEY.
